Q1.    What is the di􀃠erence between list and tuples in Python?
Ans1.          List                                       Tuples     
Lists are mutable i.e they can be edited.       Tuples are immutable (tuples are lists which can’t be edited).
Lists are slower than tuples.                   Tuples are faster than list.
Syntax: list_1 = [10, ‘Chelsea’, 20]            Syntax: tup_1 = (10, ‘Chelsea’ , 20)

Q2.What are local variables and global variables in Python?
Ans2.   Global Variables:Variables declared outside a function or in global space are called global variables. These variables can be accessed by any
                         function in the program.
        Local Variables: Any variable declared inside a function is known as a local variable. This variable is present in the local space and not in the
                         global space.

Q3.What is type conversion in Python?
Ans3: Type conversion refers to the conversion of one data type iinto another.
int() – converts any data type into integer type
􀃖oat() – converts any data type into 􀃖oat type
ord() – converts characters into integer
hex() – converts integers to hexadecimal
oct() – converts integer to octal
tuple() – This function is used to convert to a tuple.
set() – This function returns the type after converting to set.
list() – This function is used to convert any data type to a list type.
dict() – This function is used to convert a tuple of order (key,value) into a dictionary.
str() – Used to convert integer into a string.
complex(real,imag) – This functionconverts real numbers to complex(real,imag) number.

Q4. What is the di􀃠erence between Python Arrays and lists?
Ans4: Arrays and lists, in Python, have the same way of storing data. But, arrays can hold only a single data type elements whereas
lists can hold any data type elements.

Q5. What are functions in Python?
Ans5: A function is a block of code which is executed only when it is called. To define a Python function, the def keyword is used.

Q6.What is __init__?
Ans6: __init__ is a method or constructor in Python. This method is automatically called to allocate memory when a new object/
instance of a class is created. All classes have the __init__ method.

Q7.What is a lambda function?
Ans7: An anonymous function is known as a lambda function. This function can have any number of parameters but, can have
just one statement.

Q8. What is self in Python?
Ans: Self is an instance or an object of a class. In Python, this is explicitly included as the 􀃕rst parameter. However, this is not the
case in Java where it’s optional. It helps to di􀃠erentiate between the methods and attributes of a class with local variables.
The self variable in the init method refers to the newly created object while in other methods, it refers to the object whose
method was called.

Q9. How does break, continue and pass work?
Ans9: Break: Allows loop termination when some condition is met and the control is transferred
             to the next statement.
      Continue: Allows skipping some part of a loop when some speci􀃕c condition is met and the
                control is transferred to the beginning of the loop
      Pass: Used when you need some block of code syntactically, but you want to skip its
            execution. This is basically a null operation. Nothing happens when this is execute.

Q10. What does [::-1} do?
Ans10: [::-1] is used to reverse the order of an array or a sequence.

Q11. How can you randomize the items of a list in place in Python?
Ans11: Consider the example shown below:
from random import shuffle
x = ['Keep', 'The', 'Blue', 'Flag', 'Flying', 'High']
shuffle(x)
print(x)
The output of the following code is as below.
['Flying', 'Keep', 'Blue', 'High', 'The', 'Flag']

Q12  What are python iterators?
Ans12: Iterators are objects which can be traversed though or iterated upon.

Q13. What is the di􀃠erence between range & xrange?
Ans13: For the most part, xrange and range are the exact same in terms of functionality. They both provide a way to generate a list
of integers for you to use, however you please. The only di􀃠erence is that range returns a Python list object and x range returns
an xrange object.
This means that xrange doesn’t actually generate a static list at run-time like range does. It creates the values as you need them
with a special technique called yielding. This technique is used with a type of object known as generators. That means that if you
have a really gigantic range you’d like to generate a list for, say one billion, xrange is the function to use.
This is especially true if you have a really memory sensitive system such as a cell phone that you are working with, as range will
use as much memory as it can to create your array of integers, which can result in a Memory Error and crash your program. It’s a
memory hungry beast.

Q14. What is pickling and unpickling?
Ans14 : Pickle module accepts any Python object and converts it into a string representation and dumps it into a 􀃕le by using dump
function, this process is called pickling.

Q15. What are the generators in python?
Ans15: Functions that return an iterable set of items are called generators.

Q16. How will you capitalize the first letter of string?
Ans16: In Python, the capitalize() method capitalizes the 􀃕rst letter of a string. If the string already consists of a capital letter at the
beginning, then, it returns the original string.

Q17. How will you convert a string to all lowercase?
Ans17: To convert a string to lowercase, lower() function can be used.

Q18. What is the purpose of is, not and in operators?
Ans18: Operators are special functions. They take one or more values and produce a corresponding result.
is: returns true when 2 operands are true (Example: “a” is ‘a’)
not: returns the inverse of the boolean value
in: checks if some element is present in some sequence

Q19. What is a dictionary in Python?
Ans: The built-in datatypes in Python is called dictionary. It defines one-to-one relationship between keys and values. Dictionaries
contain pair of keys and their corresponding values. Dictionaries are indexed by keys.

Q20. What does len() do?
Ans20: It is used to determine the length of a string, a list, an array, etc.

